Mutation
The mutation of genetic sequences within an organism occurs at the time of creation, whether it’s from asexual reproduction or direct random creation by the simulator as part of the forced reproduction event. Random creation simply means that the values for each genetic sequence are randomly chosen from the entire possible sample space, which is from 0.0 to 1.0. An organism that is born as a result asexual reproduction has each gene sequence computed from one of the following possibilities: a one percent chance for a radical mutation which is within the entire value sample space, a ten percent chance for genetic drift of a maximum of five percent higher or lower from their parent’s value, or the organism simply inherits the sequence value from their parent.

Reproduction Rule
The reproduction rule is a simple combination of three percentage values; the first is the number of parent organisms, out of the starting population size, to preserve from the previous generation. In some cases, the entire surviving population may be selected to be parents if the surviving organism percentage of the original population is below the parent selection percentage. The total number of offspring is determined by the second percentage value as a proportion of the start population size, with the parents having an equal proportion of offspring. The final percentage value is not an exact figure, it is a rough number to indicate a proportion of randomly generated organisms injected into the population to bring the new population number back up to the same size as the original starting population. This ensures the injection of random placement and genetic elements which may possess an advantage over previous surviving organisms, as well as avoiding population decline between generations.

Reproductive Fitness
The Reproduction fitness function is an array of values  since the last reproductive event consisting of foodCarried, foodEaten, foodShared, FoodStolen, Fights, FightsWon, and Agreeability. The first two values can either be ignored in the calculation or provide a positive benefit, while the remaining five values can provide neutral, positive or negative benefits to the fitness calculation. Essentially reproductive fitness is calculated as a comparison of each organism’s values in the categories to an average value computed from all surviving organisms, which is then combined to achieve their true reproductive fitness number. Organisms that are higher than the average, for a positive benefit value, will have increased reproductive fitness, while being below the value would be a penalty. Similarly a value that is negatively valued by the fitness rule will provide a penalty for being above the average, and a benefit for being below the average. From this we see that reproductive fitness is not about absolute values, but the relative values derived from the total population base with a multiple combinations to achieve the final calculated result.
